Topic 2: Data Types

Assignment:2

a. CHAR data type allows you to store fixed-length character strings. The CHAR data type can store a character string with the size from 1 to 2000 bytes.
   NCHAR datatype is used to store fixed-length Unicode character data.The maximum size of the NCHAR column is always in the character length semantics.

b. NUMBER(p,s), BINARY_FLOAT, BINARY_DOUBLE, BOOLEAN, PLS_INTEGER, BINARY_INTEGER, INTEGER, FLOAT, DECIMAL.

c. The DATE data type stores a point in time and includes both the date and time component. It stores: The year,Month,Day,Hours,Minutes,Seconds.
   The TIMESTAMP data type is very similar to the DATE data type, except that it allows you to store fractions of a second. Allows for more granular time storage than the DATE function.
   TIMESTAMP(p).

d. BLOB data type is used to store unstructured binary large objects,means it can store a lot of data in a single file, but it cannot store character data.It has a maximum size of 4 GB.
   BFILE data type is used to refer to other files on the server, which are outside of the database system. It stores a pointer to a file.They are read-only to Oracle. The maximum size is 4 GB.

e. INTEGER is used to store large integers with a precision of 31 bits. The range of INTEGER is -2,147,483,648 to +2,147,483,647.
   SMALLINT is used to stores small integers with a precision of 15 bits. The range of SMALLINT is -32,768 to +32,767.

f. NUMBER data type is used to store fixed and floating-point numbers means can store positive numbers, and negative numbers, and can store up to 38 digits and need to specify a precision and a scale.
   INTEGER data type is an ANSI standard data type, It can only take whole numbers.

g. DATE

h. LONG datatype means Variable length character string, contain text data.Store data of up to 2GB.
   RAW -similar to VARCHAR2 but is used when you don’t want the data to be converted between systems.It stores a variable-length string.

i. VARCHAR2 data type stores alphanumeric values in variable-length strings, means the lenght is variable.
   NVARCHAR2 stores Unicode data and allows multi-byte characters to be stored in a variable-length field.When define , specify the size in characters.

j. BLOB data type is used to store unstructured binary large objects means useful for storing images or audio files.
   CLOB data type is used to store large amounts of character data that cannot fit into a VARCHAR2 column.
